Computer Language
=================

Other Topics
------------

This folder contains topics regarding the new computer language, that are either boring, trivial or just too advanced and go too far for now. All in all: topics, that are not important enough to cover yet. These topics may become sub-modules in the future.

The *Computer Language Other Topics* documentation has the following sub-folders:

### Artificial Intelligence, Natural Language, Neural Networks

It goes too far for now to consider the possibilities inside the new computer language regarding these concepts. But they are mentioned here, to demonstrate, that they are things that need to be thought about in the future. 

### Object Algebra

Object algebra is the concept of being able to math with the code, because the systematics of interconnections between objects are so straightforeward that it can be turned into a form of mathematics. The documentation folder is still empty and no software has been made in this area yet.

### Automatic Object Formation

This is also a concept, that is considered to go too far for now. It is about automatically converting unorganized code and data into well-structured code and data, organizing it into objects, so that even when you would program something in an unstructured way, it can be automatically converted into a sound structure. This would be handy for trying to understand crap-code, or for reverse engineering compiled machine instructions, or to detect possible improvements to the structure of your code, maybe for decyfering the workings of a formed neural network. Maybe in the future you will not program in a structured way yourself anymore, but you just let the computer figure out the best way to structure the system. All in all, this goes too far for now, but it is something that needs to be thought through in the future.


*Author & Copyright: Jan-Joost van Zon        Date: May 23, 2009 – May 23, 2009        Location: Oosterhout, The Netherlands        Status: Finished*
