Optimization
============

Ideas
-----

Automatic optimization, by using temporary variables for the same expression, that can't change as the procedure runs. That last element is hard to determine. For that it may also be advised to make it just a suggestion. Perhaps the temporary variable may still not be put in the source code, after the suggestion has been went along with, but the temporary storage suggestions may be declared at the beginning of the procedure.

Proceduriele optimalisatie

Machine code optimalisatie

Data structurele optimalisatie

Space optimalisatie

Wiskundige optimalisatie

\- Machine Code Optimizer

\- In-coder

\- In-liner


Het inklappen van procedures is proceduriele optimalisatie. Het inklappen van klassen is dat ook, maar ook al space optimalisatie.

Data structurele optimalisatie is nou juist wat J Data doet. 

Storing values read too much… if you’re sure it won’t change…

not including unused private functions and variables..

Compile so that no J Core calls are made, but assembly calls are made directly to the procedures. This is possible, but you’d loose compatibility with future (ann past) versions of the component and you can’t make use of all the benefits that interfaces have. It is a useful optimization though.

Figure out the ins and outs of reference argument vs. real argument.

additional J Code optimizations can be gotten from this.

Stripping code lines (e.g. ommiting checks that will never be needed)

Optimizing assembly constructions

Would J Code’s compilation optimizers take away bound these checks? Consider the ComponentList’s Remove method and see what the optimizer would have to do to find out a safety check could go.

An optimization: in a procedure every argument that is on the stack might be used only once. Then you can alter the order of the arguments so that it’s the order in which they are used, so that you can pop em one by one and don’t have to read them and then pop em at the end.

If all arguments are used once and another one twice, you *might* want to push the argument on the stack twice in the order that the values are used.

another method:

if a parameter of a whole set of properties or functions is the same and requires some processing in these properties and methods on every call, perhaps the joint parameter can become a property and can be removed from the properties and methods. That way the processing only needs to be done once.

If hardly any processing is required, then it may better be an argument, because this can be more convenient to program with.

But calls are slower. Can the compiler optimize this and make choices regarding this?


J Code , Optimizations

Accumulation optimization

Sometimes you use temporary variables to simplify understanding and debugging a calculation,

while you don't necessary need the temporary variables. You may just use a single accumulator.

Gee. I think I won't do any optimizations in J Code, because I don't permanently compile.

JJ


Optimization

At some point you’re going to want to explain what happens physically when doing some high level stuff, so you can see if this is the optimal way to do it.
But I don’t care that much right now, but at some point it might have to be adressed.
I would do that in J Code, Fundamental Principles, but I won’t work it out straight away.
Perhaps I’d just make an article about it, where I mention that it should be studied, but I don’t want to do that straight away, and why it should be studied. How things could be non-optimal and may be optimized.

JJ


Computer Language,

Instruction caching. If machine instructions other than calling methods are executed repeatedly, there may be a way to cache the eventually executed machine instructions, and run that instead of with all the calls around it.

JJ

#### Text Code**

JCode, Expression, Text Code,

Zo heb je een access operator, voor het overgaan naar een ander

systeem:

\\OBV24\VSSBASE\\Logistiek\AvioBestandVerwerking 

( \ = access object )

( \\ = access system )

JJ 


Computer Language,

Text code is not leading anymore.

JJ

PAGE  2

