Circle Language Construct Drafts | Diagram Expression
=====================================================

Abstract Diagram Expression
---------------------------

### Loose Ideas

*The texts below are loose ideas yet to be turned into good documentation.*

#### Abstract Symbol

< But another odd thing is that even though something is a call, you don’t always notate it, so the square won’t seem to have a line… This may be a subject for Abstract Symbol. >

-----

Symbol can be used to describe a system in full, so to program a system. You can also use symbol to describe the rough outline of a system: abstract Symbol code. *This* is also used in programming in order to simplify the view on the system. However, abstract Symbol can also be used for diagrams in documents describing technical designs.

-----

Assumptions and in the middle latingen

-----

You can also use the color: ‘transparent’. It is almost an insult to call < completely > transparent a color because its usefulness by far exceeds that of color. I call transparency a color, because transparency can be applied in exactly the same manner as color. Transparency as a color makes it possible to abstract the diagram. It is a very powerful tool. Abstraction is a mechanism more important than the object oriented paradigm. By using transparency you can hide for instance deep encapsulation depths so that they don’t obscure the big picture. Another very important use of transparency is hiding members of a symbol that have the Reference Access attribute set to private, which means the same as hiding the private members of an object.

### Abstract Diagram Expression

< Abstract symbol is introduced on numerous occasions already. ~~Implicit notations are an example of abstract symbol.~~ Abstract symbol is required. It is impossible to overview a (large) system if you see the exact process all the time, up to machine instructions. >

-----

< 2008-10-09  So here I say, that the fact, that always only part of the diagram is displayed, is already an abstract notation. >

-----

< Abstract symbol is when some part of the diagram is not displayed. So this counts for the slice of referential structure, but also when some part is collapsed and replaced by an ellipsis, that can be expanded again. Abstract symbol is also when you do not display the system interface. Abstract symbol is also when you use a diagram to express an abstract concept, rather than to program something. Abstract symbol is also when you only display a selection of the members of an object, just to get a point across. Abstract symbol is also when you use a simplified display, replacing the displaying of more difficult concepts with a more generally understood expression. So when setting the bar of what can be displayed and what can be edited. >

-----

Abstract Symbol. How to express overview concepts, like: there are methods that delegate to methods in children, but put restrictions on the methods.

### More ideas

Abstract Diagram Expression,  
2008-10-16

Just including the members and connections in a system, to make a point about something, to shed light an a certain piece of the systematics.

JJ

-----

Abstract Diagram Expression,  
2009-06-16

Sommige dingen zo diep weergeven, andere objecten zo diep. Sommige objecten uit het beeld weglaten = ook abstract diagram expression.

JJ

-----

Abstract Diagram Expression,  
2009-08

Any abstract meaning of a symbol could be used in abstract diagram notation. To express something but not even totally syntactically correct. So in abstract symbol you also have syntactically correct abstract diagram notation, but also syntactically incorrect abstract diagram notation.

JJ

-----

Abstract Diagram Expression,  
2009-07-02

You can also use abstract diagram expression  
to limit the information you show in a diagram,  
in order to shed light on a particular aspect of the system.

For instance you could highlight:

- status flow
- data flow 
- or process flow
 
That way you can produce different diagrams for documentation purposes.  
UML does that too.  
Only in the new computer language it is more subtractive:  
You start with a full diagrammatic system description at your disposal.  
You can abstract it in order to shed light on a particular aspect of the system.

JJ

-----

Abstract Diagram Expression,  
2009-07-07

More abstract diagram notation:
- Leaving out access marks.
- Wrongly applying automatic containment.

JJ