|<h1>***Circle Language Spec Coding Concepts***</h1>|
| :- |
## **Concepts**
**[Preliminary documentation]**

This is unfinished documentation of lower quality. It only has unfinished descriptions and loose ideas.
### **Concepts**
*This brainstorm was written in the context of efforts to program a prototype app 'Circle 3'.*

The *concepts* construct will become important in the new language, only it will not be implemented yet in Circle 3. However, Circle 3 has to be implemented in a way that the concepts construct can later be added to it. Concepts are so important that this must be possible. So in order to feel comfortable about this I have to know more about concepts, so I am going to work out a preliminary, brainstorm-style design here.

For this I am going to look into the Creator 0.9 code in which I will see what concepts need to be capable of and I will list out what you have to be able to define inside a concept and then maybe I will get a picture of how this should look in a diagram.

\-----

A lot of times concepts need to tap into other methods or other concepts’ methods and pre- or post-extend the method. And the pre- or post-extension must be in a specific point in the code of the method into which code is injected.

In Creator 0.9 there is a distinction between injecting it inside the Set’s If Value has changed or outside the Set’s If Value has actually changed. I am not sure the distinction is needed in the new version but it might have to be a feature.

The idea about injecting code a specific point was that this point of injection is determined by dependency on other concepts. Some parts of other concepts must either be finished or not started yet when the code of the dependent concept is run. So pinpointing this position is done by pinpointing the dependency on another concept and whether something has to be done before or after a part of another concept is finished. So it is about Before or After an element of another concept or Before or After a number of elements of a number of other concepts. That is how the position of code injection must be defined.

The idea is that with concepts everything is possible that is possible with code generation, only in a more structured way.

Concepts are lot like Aspects Oriented Programming. The term aspect is used for something totally different in the new computer language, though.

Concept dependency also means that another concept must be implemented for the dependent concept to be active. And sometimes even certain (optional) elements of a concept must be active in order to make a dependent concept work. This may also have to be definable.

Sometimes concepts just add extra methods to an object.

Perhaps the extra method must be part of the object itself. Perhaps it will become an extra interface of the object, perhaps it will become part of the object’s system interface and visible like an extra system aspect. I dunno, that is not the most important.

The idea is that you can apply aspects to an existing system. Does the existing system decide to use the aspect or does the user of the system choose to apply an aspect? The problem with the last thing is that this will harm the interface of the original object. The solution would be to use inheritance to keep the original interface in tact and only specialize the object adding more aspects. This would be something for system inheritance, which does have a functional definition which is still open to discussion.

So a concept can add members to an existing object, to an existing object’s system interface and add pre- and post- extensions to methods of an object, or methods added by other concepts.

Wait, if each bit of code injected is its own method, then the code of a dependent concept does not need to be put in a specific order compared to ther code injected by the other concept, it may just need to become the pre- or post-extension of the method of the other concept.

You only get a problem when pre- or post- dependency exists to multiple concepts.

So there must be thought of a way to make the same pre- or post-extension to multiple methods.

In Concepts, which replace code generation, you have to accept that members are freely added, that is what code generation is, but if you want to keep interfaces stable you can easily do this by means of separation of interfaces, this is what separation of interfaces is meant to solve.

But in its basic form, concepts just use the specialization techniques defined in the functional design of inheritance.

When you take pre-extension as an example, something is tricky though. The extensions and member additions apply not to a specific object or class, but to a selection of objects. So you need a proxy object inside the concept definition, that stands for any object the extension will be applied to. And there should be a condition that tells which objects will get the extension. So it is really starting to look like aspect oriented programming: you have code, you have join points and an expression defining which objects it applies to. The join points, however are defined through specialization techniques defined in the inheritance documentation, and the code is just code, like in aspect oriented programming and the objects it applies to is a proxy object inside the concept definition, which an expression selecting the proper objects.

I will look over a few more concepts in Creator 0.9 later, but for now I will go on with the brainstorm.

The definition of a concept must be an as concrete as possible depiction. So the definition of a concept is basically code, that specializes a proxy object, which stands for objects that adhere to certain criteria, so that the right objects are selected. Furthermore, you can add dependency concepts, that make sure the dependent concept is not applied when the dependency concept is not supported, and also make you able to apply specialization techniques to code that is added by the dependency concept. If a piece of code is added by the concept, then this piece of code is a separate method, that is tied to a specific pre or post of a specific other method, which can also yet another pre or post. This probably accounts for the complexity needed to implement concepts.

Then there is another side to it: how will the resultant code look? Because concepts extend other objects. Either the objects are augmented with code, or in order to keep the interface of the original object stable, a derived object is created and the concepts are applies to the derived object.

The specialization techniques in the functional design of Inheritance and the system events in the functional design of Events really suffice here.

It all comes together. Concepts can be separately programmed mostly using the existing constructs + concept dependency + proxy objects + object selection expressions. You just have to make the data that defines the concept an as direct depiction of the concept as possible. And concepts can be applied to systems in either an interface-stable, or an interface-unstable way. How that last part will look, will need to prove itself in practice. I just do not want to work out the theory. I just want to program it and see how it works instead of just trying to imagine it in my head.

I have an adequate brainstorm here about how things should be and I am confident that nothing will stand in the way of implementing the concept construct even when I totally ignore it in the first version. The concept construct will not overthrow the basics of the notation of the language or the basics of the other constructs. Hooray!

P.S.: Concepts can probably also have their own code, that does not really extend other objects, but is called upon by other objects. However that will be implemented, this will not be a problem.

### **Ideas**
A Concept not only can extend an item, but can also extend a class definition.

Preferably keep the extension a Concept imposes under a subobject. Don’t merge the concept into the rest of the item.


The concepts should be extensible as well, so somebody can program their own concepts. But with the genericity of Creator itself, this option should be open.


De programmeerbaarheid en uitbreidbaarheid van Concepten moet je eigenlijk ook zo snel mogelijk doorvoeren.

Concepts operate using reflective data. As such they can be applied to any system.


Relational as carbon-base,



The class-relation structure of a program can also be called

the bone-structure, or the carbon base of the program,

to which everything else is attached.



JJ


Concepts,

2008-06-10

Be able to support a whole module of concepts,

but able to exclude ones from it as well.

JJ


Concepts,

2008-06-16

The amount of referrers of a Number *object* may be small, but the amount of referrers of the Number *class* is humungous. The class will even have a Referrers list, when the class is not a created object, because Referrers applies to both symbols and objects.

You would want to turn the Referrers concept *off* for the Number class and *on* for Number objects. But the problem here is, that a class is a blueprint for an object. An object only supports Referrers, because the *class* supports it.

The first solution proposed was to simply not support the Referrers concept for classes that are widely used. But then Referrers will by *not* be supported for widely used classes. That is against the idea of supporting the Referrers concept by default.

If you can not stop a class from supporting Referrers without stopping objects from supporting Referrers at the same time, then the Referrers concept will not be widely used anymore.

Therefore, you are going to have to specify for a symbol or object, that it is a non-practitioner of a concept. Derivation of objects will take over the specified concept, but not the non-practitioner aspect.

JJ


The Principle of Concepts,



Je programmeert gewoon een soort template code,

met placeholders erin.

Een object kan een concept ondersteunen.

Daarmee krijgt een object alle code van de template ingevoegd.

Naast dat de template members toevoegt aan het object zelf,

kunnen ook system members worden toegevoegd aan

een object references (binnen het object of aan object

referenties overal naar het object dat het concept ondersteunt?)

Je kunt ook bestaande system members extenden.

Concepts zijn zeg maar de vervangers van code generators.

Een soort partial class, met placeholders erin.

bij het programmeren, moet je doen of je al een

een doelclass gaat programmeren, en daarna extraheer je

de generieke code...



JJ


Extension Procedures,

Concepts / System Objects,

Classes,

2008-07-21

\> A class defines the extension procedures, but a class is an object, so an object defines the extension procedures.

JJ



Concepts mostly operate using the reflective data. The fact that concepts they operate using reflective data makes them inherently applicable to any system.

Some things that in other programming languages are considered fundamental coding principles, can be implemented as a concept in the new computer language. Examples of this are: parameters, enums, events, type safety, inheritance. (There are even things called fundamental in other programming languages, that are considered mere plug-in modules in Software System, such as basic math.)

So expressing the system in text code is considered a concept built on top of the principles already offered by the code base. We would be lost without actually expressing computer code, but eventually the code runs without it, only it can’t be written by a human being if it wasn’t for expression.



Concepts,

2008-09-20

Do not mix the term aspect and the term concept. System aspects are more basic than concepts. Concepts in the new computer language are like aspects in Aspect Oriented Programming, but I use the term concept. The term aspect is too much the idea of part-of-something, inseparable. The term concept is more like something separate, that you can sell separately, that can be applied to anything.

JJ


Concepts,

2008-10-09

Concepts are about extension.

JJ



### **Concepts & Principles**
A Concept is a piece of software that can be applied to *any* existing object or system.

A clear characteristic of it is that it operates using the reflective data of an object or system.

This makes it possible for features of software that would otherwise be intrinsic to the program, to be plugged into any existing system.

If something is an intrinsic part of a system and it can’t be replaced by a module operating on reflective data only, it is not called a Concept, but a Principle. The word Principle expresses a stronger being bound to it, than the word Concept. A Principle is an intrinsic concept that can not be applied through any extensible model. The word Concept expresses something general, that can be *applied* to anything.

A Concept can only work because of a system’s pure reflectivity. It operates only on this reflectivity.

Reflectiveness itself is a *Principle* inside the system, that cannot be worked around.





\- How to program concepts is not yet clear to me.
I’m not sure how their systematics need to be stored,
how they need to be coded in text code,
and how they should be expressed in diagram code.




\- But I still need something to make extend the language with concepts that alter access, in the ways required.



### **More Ideas**
Concepts / aspects,

2008-12-24 

Brainstorm about Concepts

What I call concepts, is close to what the rest of the world calls aspects.

Aspects extend existing procedures, and extend existing classes.

Concepts do that too. Actually, concepts operate on reflective data in order to extend procedures and classes. You can extend a whole system of procedures and objects using concepts. Aspects do that too. What I add to aspects is that concepts can also be separate classes, that link to another class, and use the other class’s reflective data to do something with it, rather. So that is also a way to use an aspect. Anyway, I think I have to call it aspects, because the rest of the world also calls it aspects, and also I have to look at aspect oriented programming as an example for concepts.

It worries me, because of the danger, that before I even finish this programming language, most of it will prove to not even be original anymore. But on the other had, does it have to be original? Can’t it just be a language, that converges all good ideas from the world into a single programming language?

JJ


Concepts can extend system commands with more code, through pre-extension, post-extension and other object extension coding concepts.


Aspects / Concepts,

An application of this new model, that is my software system, would be

for instance, that someone comes up with something that makes any lengthy

process pauzable, items in it skippable, etcetera. Just a handy concept

for handling lenghty processes.

A handy user could inherit an existing system and extend it with a new

concept, that was not applicable to the system yet.

I think in order for a system to be adaptable to new concepts, there

must be a set of standards to be upheld. Otherwise a program might be just

one big method, and that can not adopt new concepts.

So you have to impose design rules in order to make a program

adaptable to new concepts.

JJ
