Computer Language Fundamental Principles
========================================

### Design Time = Run Time

In most programming languages there is a distinction between design time and run time. This means, that the software is programmed first, and then run. You only run it after you programmed it. If the program it is not error free, the program may crash.

The principle *Design Time = Run Time*  takes away this distinction between design time and run time. This article demonstrates how you can create a program and use it at the same time.

When you create a program you will be creating classes and defining relations between them. A class can also have attributes.

After you define a class, you can create an object of it, and set its attributes. You can also define a relation to another class. This immediately gives the objects references to other objects. These pointers can immediately be set to any arbitrary object, or to a new object. That way you are defining classes and creating objects at the same time. That’s the same as programming it and using it at the same time. But this is just the data part of that.

A more difficult issue is how to manage errors in *methods*. The internet will be a single computer, and as soon as you make a method accessible to others, you should count on it, that it could be called upon immediately. Errors will always be handled the same way: when an error is encountered, all changes are rolled back, and either default output is produced or the error is raised again, upon which the method caller will be rolled back too. Any change to data, will be rolled back on error. The effect of the method will be totally erased. This is possible, because undo history is recorded as the method runs. If data was changed from another thread already, the rollback will leave that data untouched. Producing default output on error can be a great choice in highly active systems, such as a sound generator. The ignored error could be optionally logged as a warning. 

Unnecessary rollbacks might be prevented by adding conditions to the method which are checked before the method runs. This will also produce clearer error messages. Some of these conditions might be added automatically by the system, based on a method’s contents.

There’s also the option to catch the error and run alternative code to handle the error.

The running system will not be paused on an error. This would cause too many running internet threads to hang or time out. You might want the option to pause the system anyway, when you’re still debugging it, just to be on the safe side, but by rule the program will not be stopped. The method will be rolled back, and the error thrown or default output produced. You can also choose to always return default output when you are *editing* your method.

There is one thing that may distort the blending together of design time and run time: the fact that everything will be running in a multi-user environment, in which multiple people could be working with the same data at the same time. But those problems will be covered in another article.

A program can also produce the wrong data. This is not detected as an error. This is called a functional error. No rollback is performed unless the program is adapted to detect specific functional errors. A program can always have a functional error. It can just become a bigger problem, when a method is exposed through the internet, and can be run more frequently and cause more damage. But handling functional errors is covered in Errors & Warnings. It is not part of the Design Time = Run Time principle.

### Loose Ideas

#### Changing an Object Reference's Class in Runtime

When an object or an object reference is assigned a class, you can not easily change that class. If an object has a class and you assign another class to it, it would erase the object’s original contents. If an object reference has a class, and it points to an object of that class, then when you change the class of the object reference, what happens to the target object, that still has the original class? These are exceptional situations, for which the most practical behavior needs to be determined in the future.

#### Other Loose Ideas

2004,

Every of those objects has a type. The type determines the contents of the symbol. Every object of the same type has the same contents and the contents of these objects changes simultaniously as you edit it.

< 2008-10-12 That is no longer true. Objects of the same class can have different contents. But what does change simultaneously, when you edit the class? >

JJ


Classes

2009-05-12

I do not know yet how to ventilate changes to classes to their derived objects.

JJ


PAGE  2

