##### **Attributes Are Objects**
**Attributes** may very well become **Classes** in the future. **Classes** will eventually be capable of being configured to behave just like simple variables.

A **Class** looks exactly like a simple data type when it has the following configuration:

- Exclusive à1 relation with the parent
- Containment relation with the parent
- Literal
- Never a pointer, always the object itself
- Always created
- No relations to other objects
- Binary data can be written and read from anywhere

A **Class** is no longer generally considered an **Attribute** type when:

- No exclusive à1 relation with the parent
- No containment relation with the parent
- It has relations to other objects

If the other aspects are missing, then it could still be generally considered an **Attribute**.

**Attributes** will cease to exist as we know them, and will become **Classes**. The **Class** they are an **Attribute** of, will have an exclusive 1à1 relation with the **Attribute**, the **Attribute** is always created and that is never assigned another object reference, but its members can be called and a literal value can be assigned and returned, and (most of the times) the binary contents can be used. And there won’t even be attribute types anymore!

C++ will allow an object to perfectly mimic a variable, so that’s really nice.

You should still be able to see a **Relation Class** as an **Attribute**. An **IsAttribute Boolean** in the **Relation Class** will do. You should also maintain an automatic filter index named **Attributes**, which will give the class an **Attributes** collection.

**Attributes** are still very much an application design concept. The only technical remainder in J Data will be that there is a **Class Preset** called **Attribute**, which gives the **Class** settings as they are generally expected in an **Attribute**. For more information, see the *Presets* section. The **Attributes** filter index can also be automatically created by setting the **Class**’s **HasAttributes** property.

You should also be able to add things to the **Attributes** collection of the **Class**, or you’d have to define everything in the **Structure.Relation** collection. Heck, I want to be able to add relations to the **Class.RelatedClasses** anyway. I could just make **Class.RelatedClasses.Add** create a **Relation** in the Structure.Relations collection and return the **Other Relation Class**. When adding to the **Attributes** collection, I should do the same, but give the added **Relation Class** the **Attribute Preset**.

To be able to use value filters, you have to be able to filter by an object’s literal value. That should be considered in the *Filters, Sorts, Searches, Joins and Indexes* section too.

It still must be possible to give attributes parameters. That implies that à1 related objects can get parameters.
###### ***Other Things***
Simple data types could be replaced by J Math objects. In that case some of the rules for mimicking attributes, will get ignored. The worst one that is ignored is that J Math objects can have relations to other classes. In that case, the binary contents of the object isn’t just the value of the variable anymore, it also contains all sorts of stuff for the related classes, such as **IDs** for instance.

Attributes can be considered are outermost nodes of the relational structure, the other nodes are intemediate nodes. This phrase is true most of the times, but attributes aren’t bound that tightly to the rules I’ve set out above anymore. You can better say: objects with no relations to other objects are the outermost nodes of the relational structure. Actually: pieces of binary data (target data, not pointers) are outer nodes.
##### **Attributes Become Classes**
Eerder dacht ik ook aan om misschien meteen Attributes Become Classes toe te passen. Maar laat dat nog maar even. Het inrichten van attributen is heel erg gelijk aan het inrichten van related items. Je zou de item class ook 1 string waarde kunnen geven, 1 integer waarde, etcetera. Daarmee kan de item class ook een enkele string of integer representeren.

Toen ik dit probeerde te implementeren in de eerste opzet van Creator 2.0, kreeg ik problemen met de verschillen tussen een object referentie en een uniek object, enzo. Het was in ieder geval erg lastig om het meteen te implementeren, dus ik heb gewoon Attributes apart gedaan.

## ***Ideas***

###### ***Attributes Are Objects***
Het concept Create Objects kan trouwens enigszins gezien worden als identiek aan het Default Value concept. (maar de twee concepten kunnen alleen mergen als Attributes are

Classes)

Het Ensure Objects concept kan zo ook gezien worden als identiek aan het Not Null concept.

PAGE  2

