Computer Language Fundamental Principles
========================================

### User Interface Not Procedure Oriented

Programming interfaces have gone from procedural, to object oriented. Procedures are part of the object they are about, rather than separate procedures being executed on data.

User interfaces however, are still too much procedure oriented, because there are commands in a menu, instead of being able to right-click on an object and see any action you can undertake on it.

The objects you see on screen have a serious lack of items in their *context* menu (the one you see when you right-click an object on screen). Instead, most commands are hidden somewhere in the big menu at the top of your window. That’s not handy. You’d have to look through the menu’s to find a command to execute on an object, you already see on screen.

Any command you can execute on an object should be listed under the context menu of that object. I first and foremost want to see a command hanging under an item, not look through a big list of commands to find the one, I can execute on my item.

However, in the new system, all commands you can execute on an object, are accessible under the object itself. But also: all methods of all classes of objects are accessible as a flat list of commands. So the new system actually supports both ways.

This is because of the concepts of Flat & Structured Interchange. So ‘User Interface Not Procedure Oriented’ is actually a bad title for this article. The user interface is both object oriented and procedure oriented at the same time.
