Computer Language
=================

## **Diagram Expression**
*Expression* includes a *diagram notation* for visualizing the program code. The diagrams are a mere expression of binary interlinked objects. Systematics, stored in a binary way as interlinked objects, are translated to a diagram, expressed on screen. The diagram should be fully automatically drawn out. The metrics and positioning of the shapes and lines is automatically determined. The diagram can be edited, resulting in changes to the stored binary objects.

How *each concept* is expressed in a diagram is already covered in the documentation *of those* concepts. The basics of the diagram notation were already covered at the beginning of the new computer language documentation. *This* documentation folder explains everything *else* about diagram the diagram notation, such as how the shape positions of the diagram are automatically determined and how the diagram can be *colored*, to make the systematics even more clear. 

The articles in the *Diagrams* documentation folder are not finished. They consist mostly of texts coming out of an earlier unfinished design of the diagram notation language. The diagram notation has not been realized in software yet.

This folder contains the following articles:

### *UML*

This article is not finished. It should contain an evaluation on what are the pros and cons of the new diagram notation compared to UML: what does UML offer, that the new diagram notation does not and what UML-expressable concepts have a better alternative notation inside the new diagram language? How useful is UML anymore if you have the new diagram notation? Or does UML still offer things, that the new diagram notation does not. And if there is something the new diagram notation does not offer: should the diagram notation be changed, so that UML becomes obsolete? So this article should be a comparison between UML and the diagram notation of the new computer language.


*Author & Copyright: Jan-Joost van Zon        Date: May 21, 2009 – May 21, 2009        Location: Oosterhout, The Netherlands        Status: Finished*
