Computer Language
=================

Utilities
---------

This documentation folder can cover all sorts of utilities for the new computer language, such as debugging or a macro recorder or code editors. More tools may be added in the future. Some utilities are described conceptual, some are just named, and for some of them just a few loose ideas are given. None of the utilities were implemented in software yet.

The *Utilities* documentation folder has the following sub-folders:

### Code Editor

This folder is empty. On top of text code being constructed and parsed, text code also separately requires a code editor for use in the programming environment. Nothing like this has been developed yet in the software.

### Debugging

The new computer language is described, but how to go through code step by step or debug it has not been covered yet. This documentation may cover how debugging is implemented inside the environment of the new computer language. For now it only contains loose ideas about it. Nothing like this has been developed yet.

### Translating From XML

This may be a tool to read out XML and show it as a structure in the new computer language. So it is not about saving and loading data as XML, but it is about taking existing XML from another source and showing it inside the new computer language. The idea came out of the design of the relational language *Creator* made in 2007. This idea will probably not be implemented inside the main module *Code*, but inside the main module *Legacy*, to offer access to XML. Nothing like this has been developed in the software yet. The documentation only contains a loose idea about it and is not a full description yet.

### Translating To and From Relational Database

This may be a module to convert a relational database to a structure inside the new computer language or to convert a structure in the new computer language to a relational database. The idea came out of the design of the relational language *Creator* made in 2007. The idea was, that this would make using the new language an option more easily picked. This idea will be superseded by *Legacy* modules offering the ability to access the new computer language as if it were relational database and the ability to display relational databases in the syntax of the new computer language. Nothing like this has been developed in the software yet. The documentation only contains a loose idea about it and is not a full description yet.

### Web Applications

This folder is empty. This idea came out of the design of the relational language *Creator* made in 2007. That version of the new computer language offered a generated user interface. The idea was, to also let it offer generated web applications, so that you can access a Creator application through the internet.

This idea will be superseded, by the fact, that the new design of the new computer language will be one, in which there is always in interaction with the internet, and that web user interfaces will be offered as a legacy module. Nothing like this has been developed in the software yet. The documentation only contains a loose idea about it and is not a full description yet.

### Derive Relation Counterpart

When one class of object registers its related objects, but the related objects do not register the relation back, then you might need a tool to add that backward relation. To do that, a query needs to be done, to find the related objects, that were originally not registered inside the other object. The *Derive Relation Counterpart* tool is to cover this. This folder is empty. No such tool was implemented yet in the software.

### Normalization

Some data is not normalized. Normalization is concept in relational database, to prevent repetition of data, by replacing the same data with a reference to a central point at which you store the data only once. Normalization may also be applied to code as such, to prevent repeated code. The concept is not worked out here yet. It may become a tool in a programming environment in the future.

### Text Classing

This concept would allow you to quickly select pieces of text out of a text document and call it an object and assign a class typing to it, so that you turn the text document into objects with classes, references to eachother and a containment structure. That way you can turn a text document into a relational structure in no time. The documentation only describes the basic idea. No software has been written for it yet.

### Macro Recorder

The new computer language should have this button to press, that records all user actions, that are undertaken. Then, when you stop recording, the user actions are recorded as a procedure, that can be called as a command to be executed in one blow instead of performing all the actions manually. You can also edit the command code, to fine-tune the behavior of the command. This makes it easy to turn manual work into automatic procedures and it also makes it easier to program new commands. Other programs have this sort of macro recording, and the new computer language should also have such functionality in the futures. Macro recording has not been implemented inside existing versions of the new computer language yet.

### Text Statistics

This should be a tool to automatically create word statistics for a text document: how many times is a word in there? How many different words are used? How many times is each word used? This can form a base for a document index. But words used too much, such as ‘and’ an ‘a’, should be left out. Text statistics could be a very useful utility. No such utility has been implemented in the software yet.


## Ideas

*The material below are loose ideas, yet to be turned into good documentation.*


Computer Language, Utilities,

Ik heb geen tool voor performance monitoring en tuning vermeld in de documentatie.

JJ


Monitoring,

"Regulator"

JJ


Software System,

I think I have too little management of the physical devices yet.

JJ


Monitoring

Where I thought a tuning utility would be an option, I should think more that it is a requirement.

JJ


2004,

Incremental compilation

Debugging

Syntax Checking

JJ 

2004,

Create default, ready to easily work with, settings for objects. ‘Advanced’ programmers can alter them as they know better. Programmers might want to create their own default that overrides the premade default. Or use no initialization at all. I’ll think about that later.

JJ

